ERTP API Alpha Release update and clean up. (#249)
Agoric/documentation: main/ertp/api/amount-math.md

```js
someAmount: {
  brand: someBrand,
  value: someValue,
}
```

## Value

`values` describe how much of something can be owned or shared. A fungible `value` is normally represented by a natural number. Other `values` may be represented as strings naming a particular right, or an arbitrary object that sensibly represents the rights at issue.

A `value` must be `Comparable`.

## amountMath.getBrand()
- Returns: `{Brand}`

Return the `brand` the `amountMath` works on. 

An `amountMath` has a one-to-one association with a `brand`, established when
both are created by `makeIssuerKit()`. The association cannot be broken or changed;
a particular `amountMath` will always and only be used on `amounts` with its
initially associated `brand`. 

```js
const { issuer } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
//Get the issuer's associated amountMath.

> const exampleAmountMath = issuer.getAmountMath();

Author: Deleted issuer.getAmountMath. Added section near top on local Amount Maths, and documented makeLocalAmountMath(issuer) just under it.

> const exampleAmountMath = issuer.getAmountMath();

Author: Ah. I caught one of the two, missed the other. Removed.

the `amountMath` is of kind `nat` (`0`), `set` (`[]`), or `strSet` (`[]`).

```js
const { amountMath: quatloosAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
// Returns an empty amount for this amountMath.
// Since this is a fungible amount it returns an amount
// with 0 as its value.
const empty = quatloosAmountMath.getEmpty();
```

## amountMath.isEmpty(amount)
- `amount` `{Amount}`
- Returns: `{Boolean}`

Returns `true` if the `amount` is empty. Otherwise returns `false`.

```js
const { amountMath: quatloosAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
const empty = quatloosAmountMath.getEmpty();
const quatloos1` = quatloosAmountMath.make(1);

// returns true
quatloosAmountMath.isEmpty(empty)

// returns false
quatloosAmountMath.isEmpty(quatloos1)
```

## amountMath.isGTE(leftAmount, rightAmount)
- `leftAmount` `{Amount}`
- `rightAmount` `{Amount}`
- Returns: `{boolean}`

Returns `true` if the `value` of `leftAmount` is greater than or equal to
the `value` of `rightAmount`. Both `amount` arguments must have the same
`brand`.

For non-fungible `values`, what "greater than or equal to" is depends on the 
kind of `amountMath`. For example, whether rectangle A is greater than rectangle B 

> depends on whether rectangle A includes rectangle B as defined by the logic in `amountMath`

Author: How's this?

For example, { 'seat 1', 'seat 2' } is considered
greater than { 'seat 2' } because the former 
both contains all of the latter's  contents and has more elements.

> depends on whether rectangle A includes rectangle B as defined by the logic in `amountMath`

Reviewer: that's good.

# Amount Math

Logic for manipulating `amounts`.

## Obtaining an AmountMath

There are three ways and circumstances you can get access to an `amountMath`:
- You made its associated `mint` and `issuer` with `makeIssuerKit()`, so use the `amountMath` returned from the call. 

> - You are writing a Zoe contract and the `issuer` is saved in Zoe, so call `zcf.getAmountMath(brand)`.. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You are writing a Zoe contract and the `issuer` is saved in Zoe, so call `zcf.getAmountMath(brand)`.
```

- You receive or learn about an `issuer` and are not writing a Zoe contract, so call `makeLocalAmountMath(issuer)`.

## AmountMath Kinds

There are three different kinds of `amountMath`, each of which implements all the methods shown on this page. You only have to specify the `amountMath` kind when creating its associated `issuer`.

The three kinds of `amountMath` each implement all of the same set of API methods (i.e. `amountMath` methods are polymorphic). We recommend you import the `MathKind` values from `@agoric/ERTP` instead of making the strings yourself. 

- `MathKind.NAT` (`nat`): Used with fungible assets. `amount` `values` are natural numbers (non-negative integers).
- `MathKind.STRING_SET` (`strSet`): Used with non-fungible assets. `amount` `values` are strings.
- `MathKind.SET` (`set`): Used with non-fungible assets. `amount` `values` are objects or records with multiple properties.

Use `makeIssuerKit(allegedName, MathKind)` to specify which `amountMath` 
kind your contract uses. The second parameter, `MathKind` is optional and 
defaults to `MathKind.NAT` if not given. For example
```js
import { MathKind, makeIssuerKit } from '@agoric/ertp';

> makeIssuerKit('quatloos'); // Defaults to 'MathKind.NAT'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
makeIssuerKit('quatloos'); // Defaults to MathKind.NAT
```

makeIssuerKit('foobars', MathKind.STRING_SET);
makeIssuerKit('kitties', MathKind.SET);
```

## Amount

An `amount` is a description of digital assets, answering the 
questions "how much?" and "of what kind?". It is a `value` ("how much") 
labeled with a `brand` ("of what kind"). `AmountMath` executes the logic 
of how an `amount` changes when digital assets are merged, separated, or 
otherwise manipulated. For example, a deposit of 2 Quatloos into a `purse` 
that already has 3 Quatloos gives a new balance of 5 Quatloos. 
An empty `purse` has 0 Quatloos. 

```js
someAmount: {
  brand: someBrand,
}

>   value: someValue,

Reviewer 2: `}` should come after `someValue`

```

## Value

`values` describe how much of something can be owned or shared. A fungible `value` is normally represented by a natural number. Other `values` may be represented as strings naming a particular right, or an arbitrary object that sensibly represents the rights at issue.

## makeLocalAmountMath(issuer)
- `issuer`: `{issuer}`
- Returns: `{ Promise<AmountMath> }`

Creates and returns a local `amountMath` object. The new
local copy uses the same remote `brand` as the `issuer` does.

This should be used when you need an `amountMath`, and receive or 

> learn about an `issuer`, and are not writing a Zoe contract,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
learn about an `issuer`, and are not writing a Zoe contract.
```

```js
someAmount: {
  brand: someBrand,
  value: someValue,
}
```

## Value

`values` describe how much of something can be owned or shared. A fungible `value` is normally represented by a natural number. Other `values` may be represented as strings naming a particular right, or an arbitrary object that sensibly represents the rights at issue.

A `value` must be `Comparable`.

## LocalAmountMath

We encourage you to make and use local and thus synchronous versions of `AmountMaths`. 
Their local or remote status is the only different between the two; each has the same methods, the
same kinds (`MathKind.NAT`, etc.) and the same one-to-one relationship with a `mint`, `issuer`, and `brand`.
Both a local `amountMath` and a remote `amountMath` can exist and be associated with the same
`mint`, `issuer`, and `brand`.

The advantage of making and using a local `amountMath` is that it's synchronous.

## makeLocalAmountMath(issuer)
- `issuer`: `{issuer}`
Returns: `{ AmountMath }`

Creates and returns a local (synchronous) `amountMath` object. The new local copy has the same many-to-one

> relationship with the original's `issuer`, and thus also to the original's `brand` and `mint`.

Author: Huh. It seems odd that a local amountMath doesn't have a connection to issuer, given that those are created by makeLocalAmountMath(issuer). Could you explain why it doesn't given that, 'cause that's why I was thinking it did.

`leftAmount` and `rightAmount` must be of the same `brand`.

If the `rightAmount` is empty, it returns the `leftAmount`. If both arguments are
empty, it returns an empty `amount`.

```js
import { MathKind, makeIssuerKit } from '@agoric/ertp';
const { amountMath: itemsAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('myItems', MathKind.STRING_SET);
const listAmountA = itemsAmountMath.make(harden['1','2','4']);
const listAmountB = itemsAmountMath.make(harden['3']);
const listAmountC = itemsAmountMath.make(harden['2']);

// Returns ['1', '4']
const subtractedList = itemsAmountMath.subtract(listAmountA, listAmountC)

// Throws error
const badList = itemsAmountMath.subtract(listAmountA, listAmountB)
```
## Related Methods

The following methods on other ERTP components and objects also either operate
on or return a brand. While a brief description is given for each, you should
click through to a method's main documentation entry for full details on
what it does and how to use it.

> - [`issuer.getAmountOf(payment)`](./issuer.html#issuer-getamountof-payment)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <router-link to="./issuer.html#issuer-getamountof-payment">issuer.getAmountOf(payment)</router-link>
```

  - Returns the `amount` description of the `payment`
- [`issuer.getAmountMathKind()`](./issuer.html#issuer-getamountmathking)
  - Returns the kind of the `issuer`'s associated `amountMath`.
- [`zcf.getAmountMath(brand)`](https://agoric.com/documentation/zoe/api/zoe-contract-facet.html#zcf-getamountmath-brand)
  - Returns the `amountMath` associated with the `brand`.

> 

Reviewer 2: can we use router-link here too? If we use absolute links like https://agoric.com, there's a couple of downsides. 1) it's fragile if we move the files around. 2) it shows the icon for an "external link" on the page.

```js
someAmount: {
  brand: someBrand,
  value: someValue,
}
```

## Value

`values` describe how much of something can be owned or shared. A fungible `value` is normally represented by a natural number. Other `values` may be represented as strings naming a particular right, or an arbitrary object that sensibly represents the rights at issue.

A `value` must be `Comparable`.

## LocalAmountMath

We encourage you to make and use `LocalAmountMath`, a local and thus synchronous version of `AmountMath`. 
Their local or remote status is the only different between the two types; each has the same methods, the
same kinds (`MathKind.NAT`, etc.) and the same one-to-one relationship with a `mint`, `issuer`, and `brand`.
If necessary, both a `LocalAmountMath` and an `AmountMath` can exist and be associated with the same

> `mint`, `issuer`, and `brand` **tyg todo This last is a guess on my part. Correct?**.

Reviewer: This is mostly a description for TYG, and not intended as text for this doc.

local AmountMaths aren't a different type from remote ones, they merely reside in the same vat as the user. This allows them to be accessed without remote calls. Both use the same code, and hold the same state. The Brand is a unique object that has a unique instance somewhere in the distributed object system. 

The way we share objects and references across the networks distinguishes things with identity and copyable values. by-copy values include numbers and strings. Every instance of 3 is indistinguishable, so we make copies when we need to, and one can't tell whether any particular '3' is the same as another. OTOH, objects are unique and live in only one place. If an object in one vat has a reference to another object from another vat, we represent that with a local object called a "presence" that can forward messages to the original. *We ensure that there is only one presence for any particular object in each vat* that knows about it. This means if there are two different objects in vat A that both have references to some object in vat B, they will be the same object.

This unique object is what we use for the Brand held by an AmountMath. The rest of the state of the AmountMath is copyable state. When you have a local AmountMath, it's holding onto the presence for the remote Brand, and so can recognize any Amount that is from the same issuer. A remote AmountMath has the same ability to distinguish between Amounts that came from that Issuer and others because as the Amounts are shared around, their values are copied, but the Brands they contain are represented as presences, and so can be uniquely identified in every vat in which they appear. 

The only reason one doesn't want to use a remote AmountMath is that every call takes a network roundtrip. We designed the representation of AmountMath so a local copy is every bit as good as a remote one, and faster to access.

## makeLocalAmountMath(issuer)
- `issuer`: `{issuer}`

> Returns: `{ LocalMathAmount }`

Reviewer: LocalAmountMath isn't a type.

Creates and returns a local (synchronous) Amount Math object. The new `localAmountMath` has a one-to-one
relationship with the `issuer`, and thus also to the `brand` and `mint` in one-to-one
```js
import { makeLocalAmountMath } from '@agoric/ertp';

> const quatloosLocalAmountMath = await makeLocalAmountMath(quatloosIssuer);

Reviewer: users wouldn't name it with "local". We've designed the API so the only kind of AmountMath you can get is a local one. Perhaps we should have left the "local" out of the function's name, but we wanted to call attention to the fact that it has to do some asynchronous operations to get the Brand, and that's why you have to include the "await".

```

## amountMath.getBrand()
- Returns: `{Brand}`

Return the `brand` the `amountMath` works on. 

An `amountMath` has a one-to-one association with a `brand`, established when
both are created by `makeIssuerKit()`. The association cannot be broken or changed;
a particular `amountMath` will always and only be used on `amounts` with its
initially associated `brand`. 

```js
const { issuer } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
//Get the issuer's associated amountMath.
const exampleAmountMath = issuer.getAmountMath();
//Get the amountMath's associated brand.
const exampleBrand = exampleAmountMath.getBrand();
```

## amountMath.getAmountMathKind()
- Returns: `{String}`

Get the kind (`MathKind.NAT`, `MathKind.STRING_SET`, `MathKind.SET`) of the `amountMath`.

```js
const { amountMath: quatloosAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
quatloosAmountMath.getMathHelpersName(); // MathKind.NAT
```

## amountMath.make(allegedValue)

- `allegedValue` `{Value}`
- Returns: `{Amount}`

Make an `amount` from a `value` by adding the `brand` associated with

> the `amountMath`..

Reviewer: double period

```js
const { amountMath: quatloosAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');

> //amount837 = { value: 837 brand: quatloos }

Reviewer: I may have led you astray here. There needs to be a comma after '837'.
```suggestion
//amount837 = { value: 837, brand: quatloos }
```

const amount837 = quatloosAmountMath.make(837);
```

## amountMath.coerce(allegedAmount)
- `allegedAmount` `{Amount}`
- Returns: `{Amount}`

Make sure this `amount` is valid and if so, return it.
If not valid, throws an exception. 

> Make sure this amount is valid and if so, return it.

Reviewer: duplicate text

> The example would show

Reviewer: editorial comment?

kind of `amountMath`. For example, { 'seat 1', 'seat 2' } is considered
greater than { 'seat 2' } because the former both contains all of the latter's 
contents and has more elements.

```js
const { amountMath: quatloosAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
const empty = quatloosAmountMath.getEmpty();
const quatloos5 = quatloosAmountMath.make(5);
const quatloos10 = quatloosAmountMath.make(10);

// Returns true
quatloosAmountMath.isGTE(quatloos5, empty);
// Returns false
quatloosAmountMath.isGTE(empty, quatloos5);
// Returns true
quatloosAmountMath.isGTE(quatloos10, quatloos5);
// Returns false
quatloosAmountMath.isGTE(quatloos5, quatloos10);
// Returns true
quatloosAmountMath.isGTE(quatloos5, quatloos5);
```

## amountMath.isEqual(leftAmount, rightAmount)
- `leftAmount` `{Amount}`
- `rightAmount` `{Amount}`
- Returns: `{boolean}`

Returns `true` if the `value` of `leftAmount` is equal to
the `value` of `rightAmount`. Both `amount` arguments must have the same
`brand`.

For non-fungible `values`, "equal to" depends on the kind of `amountMath`. 
For example, { 'seat 1', 'seat 2' } is considered
unequal to { 'seat 2' } because the number of items in the former is

> different from that of the latter. Similarly { `seat 1` } and { `seat2` } 
> are considered unequal because the conthe former both contains all of the latter's 
> contents and has more elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different from that of the latter. Similarly { `seat 1`,  `seat2`  } and { `seat2` } 
are considered unequal because the former has elements that are not contained in the latter.
```

```js
const { amountMath: quatloosAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('quatloos');
const empty = quatloosAmountMath.getEmpty();
const quatloos10 = quatloosAmountMath.make(10);
const quatloos5 = quatloosAmountMath.make(5);

> const quatloos5-2 = quatloosAmountMath.make(5);

Reviewer: javascript variable names can't have dashes in them. perhaps `quatloos5b`?

// Returns true
quatloosAmountMath.isEqual(quatloos10, quatloos10);
// Returns true
quatloosAmountMath.isEqual(quatloos5, quatloos5-2);
// Returns false
quatloosAmountMath.isEqual(quatloos10, quatloos5);
// Returns false
quatloosAmountMath.isEqual(empty, quatloos10);
```

## amountMath.add(leftAmount, rightAmount)
- `leftAmount` `{Amount}`
- `rightAmount` `{Amount}`
- Returns: `{Amount}`

Returns a new `amount` that is the union of `leftAmount` and `rightAmount`. Both
arguments must be of the same `brand`.

For fungible `amounts` this means adding their `values`. For non-fungible
`amounts`, it usually means including all of the elements from `leftAmount`
and `rightAmount`.

If either `leftAmount` or `rightAmount` is empty, it just returns the non-empty 
`amount` argument. If both are empty, it returns an empty `amount`.

```js
import { MathKind, makeIssuerKit } from '@agoric/ertp';
const { amountMath: itemsAmountMath } = makeIssuerKit('myItems', MathKind.STRING_SET');
const listAmountA = itemsAmountMath.make(harden['1','2','4']);
const listAmountB = itemsAmountMath.make(harden['3']);

> // Returns ['1', '2', '4', '3']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Returns an amount whose value is ['1', '2', '4', '3']
```

  - Returns the `amount` description of the `payment`
- <router-link to="./issuer.html#issuer-getamountmathkind">`issuer.getAmountMathKind()`</router-link>
  - Returns the kind of the `issuer`'s associated `amountMath`.

> -  [`zcf.getAmountMath(brand)`](https://github.com/Agoric/documentation/master/main/zoe/api/zoe-contract-facet.md#zcfgetamountmathbrand)

Reviewer 2: Not the right URL
